>> Will Sentance: Can
anybody propose a better way
than having copies of each
function on every single user?
But remembering I still
wanna be able to do this.
Well, hold on that thought for a moment.
Can someone think of a better way?
Jeff, you've got a wry smile on,
you wanna.
>> Jeff: Well, you could use
a project create a prototype.
>> Will Sentance: Yes, maybe Kelly, you
will have a thought what intuitively could
we do rather than have copies of all our
functions one on every single object?
What could we do, just in a very
straightforward sense, Todd?
>> Todd: Well, I just have a main
user that we can reference each.
>> Will Sentance: Close, just very,
very intuitive and simple, Braydon?
>> Braydon: Make functions that
accept the object you're using.
>> Will Sentance: That is another way,
but the problem with that then,
then we fall back into the old
world of where's my function?
I can apply it to anything.
So, we want them to be bundled
in the same way, yeah, Matt?
>> Matt: Just add the one function.
>> Will Sentance: Just add
the one function in an object and
somehow have JavaScript know that when it
doesn't find increment on user2,
not give up.
Have us no increment function on user2.
No increment function on user1, but
a single object,
>> Will Sentance: We
could call it, I don't know,
function store.
We'll use a function, so I don't know, and
in there have our increment functionality.
And somehow hope that
JavaScript has some feature
that will mean that when it does not find.
It goes user2, looks for the memory,
looks for the increment property on it,
doesn't find, doesn't panic, doesn't
give up, but somehow knows to go and
find the function in this object,
grabs its code, and runs it.
And that's exactly what
JavaScript's gonna do.
The prototype chain, we're gonna store
the increment function in just one object.
And have the JavaScript interpret it.
That's the bit that looks at it and
goes what do I do with that?
What's this word mean?
While I go look for that.
Have it, if it doesn't find the function
on user1, or in this case user2,
not give up, but somehow look up to
that object, find increment, and use it.
We've gotta link user1 or user2, and this
function store object that I've created.
So the interpreter,
we're not finding increment,
makes sure to check up to function store,
where it would find it.
And exactly as Jeff hinted, make that
link using the object.create technique.
Here it is people.
Have a look, how user created functions
change, we're still making our new user.
But now we're using the object.create
technique to create the object,
and look at this.
It's still gonna be an empty object.
But I have a feeling that the fact that
we're passing in user function store,
we're gonna call it user function store,
which is by the looks of it a bigger
object here with two functions.
I've added another one,
increment and login.
And I'm somehow gonna have a link
behind the scenes on this object.
There's gonna be no increment function.
There's gonna be no
increment function on it.
Anybody see me adding an increment
function to new user object?
I don't see one.
But somehow it is gonna have a link
to the shared storage functions.
Meaning when we return the object out,
that link is gonna still be
that shared store functions.
>> Will Sentance: It's gonna be very,
very nice.
By the way,
this approach here is gonna fundamentally
achieve all the things we wanna achieve.
Besides the fact that it's gonna
involve a bit of writing a code.
And there might be some shorthand
ways of achieving this.
And solution three and
four are just gonna be shortened
ways of doing just this thing.
This is the absolute core.